<head><link href="oft_spec.css" rel="stylesheet"></link></head>

System Requirement Specification OpenFastTrack

# Introduction

## Terminology

  * OFT: OpenFastTrack (this project)
  * Specification item: holds either a requirement or coverage
  * Specification artifact: a data source containing specification items (e.g. file, ticket system,
    database)
  * Coverage requester: a specification item that need coverage
  * Coverage provider: a specification item that provides coverage

# Features

## Requirement Tracing
`feat~requirement-tracing~1`

OFT traces requirements from specification to any kind of coverage (document, implementation, test, etc.).

Needs: req

## Markdown Import
`feat~markdown-import~1`

OFT imports specification items from Markdown files.

Rationale:

Markdown is a clean an simple format that:

  * is viewable with any text editor
  * focuses on content instead of layout
  * is portable across platforms
  * easy to process with text manipulation tools
  
For those reasons Markdown is a suitable candidate for writing specification that can be read and
maintained over a long time.

Needs: req

## ReqM2 Import
`feat~reqm2-import~1`

OFT imports specification items from ReqM2 files.

Rationale:

One of the OpenFastTrack design goals is to provide a Java-based drop-in replacement for ReqM2, so file format compatibility is essential.

Needs: req

## ReqM2 Export
`feat~reqm2-export~1`

OFT exports specification items from ReqM2 files.

Rationale:

One of the OpenFastTrack design goals is to provide a Java-based drop-in replacement for ReqM2, so file format compatibility is essential.

Needs: req

## Tracing Reports

A tracing report is a representation of the results of the requirement tracing OFT performs. Depending on their use, reports can be designed to be human readable, machine readable or both.

### Plain Text Report
`feat~plain-text-report~1`

OFT produces a tracing report in plain text.

Rationale:
 
This can be read directly as console output or with any text editor.

Needs: req

## User Interface

### Command Line Interface
`feat~command-line-interface~1`

OFT offers a command line interface.

Rationale:

Running traces automatically in a scripted environment is the most important use case.

Needs: req

# High Level Requirements

## Anatomy of Specification Items

### Specification Item
`req~specification-item~1`

A specification item consists of the following parts:

  * ID
  * Title (optional)
  * Description (optional)
  * Rationale (optional)
  * Comment (optional)
  * Covers (optional)
  * Depends (optional)
  * Needs (optional)

The ID is a unique key through which the specification item can be referenced. It also contains the specification item type and revision number.

The title is a short summary of the specification item, mostly intended to appear in overview lists.

The description contains the normative part of the specification.

The rationale explains the reasoning behind a requirement or decision.

The "Covers" section contains a list of all specification item IDs that are covered by this item.

The "Depends" section contains a list of all specification item IDs that must be implemented in order
for this item to be complete.

The "Needs" section list all artifact item types in which coverage for this item is ing) 

Needs: dsn

## Import

### Import File Selection
`req~import-file-selection~1`

Users can select zero ore more files to be imported.

Rationale:

The 90% case will be scanning a single project directory and using the contents for tracing. There are scenarios though, where file lists generated by external tools need to be processed.

Covers:

  * [feat~markdown-import~1](#markdown-import)
  * [feat~reqm2-import~1](#markdown-import)

Needs: dsn

## Supported Formats

### Markdown

#### Markdown Standard Syntax
`req~markdown-standard-syntax~1`

The OFT Markdown specification artifact format uses the standard markdown syntax without proprietary extensions.

Rationale:

The specification documents that the OFT Markdown importer reads must be viewable with any regular Markdown reader and as plain text.

Covers:

  * [feat~markdown-import~1](#markdown-import)

Needs: dsn

#### Markdown Outline Readable
The Markdown outline -- a table of contents created from the heading structure by various Markdown editors -- must be human readable.

Rationale:

In long specification document the outline is the primary means of navigating the document. Only if the outline can be read easily, it is useful for authoring specification documents.

Covers:

  * [feat~markdown-import~1](#markdown-import)

Needs: dsn

## Tracing

### Exit Status According to Tracing Result

`req~exit-status~1`

The return value of the OFT executable reflects the overall tracing result.
 
Covers:

  * [feat~requirement-tracing~1](#requirement-tracing~1
Needs: dsn

### Outgoing Coverage Link Status
`req~outgoing-coverage-link-status~1`

_Outgoing coverage link_ means links that originate from a specification item and end at another specification item. 
OFT determines the status of an outgoing coverage link of a specification item.

The possible results are:

  1. Covers:    link points to a specification item which wants this coverage
  2. Outdated:  link points to a specification item which has a higher revision number
  3. Predated:  link points to a specification item which has a lower revision number
  4. Ambiguous: link points to a specification item that has duplicates
  5. Unwanted:  coverage provider has an artifact type the provider does not want
  6. Orphaned:  link is broken - there is no matching coverage requester

Covers:

  * [feat~requirement-tracing~1](#requirement-tracing)
.

Needs: dsn

### Incoming Coverage Link Status
`req~incoming-coverage-link-status~1`

_Incoming coverage link_ means links that end at a specification item and originate at another specification item
OFT determines the incoming coverage link status of a requirement.

The possible results are:

  1. Covered shallow:  coverage provider for a required coverage exists
  2. Covered unwanted: coverage provider covers an artifact type the requester does not want
  3. Covered predated: coverage provider covers a higher revision number than the requester has
  4. Covered outdated: coverage provider covers a lower revision number than the requester has

Covers:

  * [feat~requirement-tracing~1](#requirement-tracing)

Needs: dsn

### Deep Coverage
`req~deep-coverage~1`

OFT marks a specification item as _covered deeply_ if this item - and all items it needs coverage from - are covered recursively.

Covers:

  * [feat~requirement-tracing~1](#requirement-tracing)


Needs: dsn

### Duplicate Items
`req~duplicate-items~1`

OFT marks a specification item as -duplicate- if other items with the same ID exist.

Covers:

  * [feat~requirement-tracing~1](#requirement-tracing)

Needs: dsn

### Defect Items
`req~defect-items~1`

OFT marks a specification item as _defect_ if any of the following criteria apply

  1. The specification item has duplicates (i.e. another specification item with the same ID exists)
  2. At least one outgoing coverage link has a different status than "Covers"
  3. The item is not covered deeply
  
Covers:

  * [feat~requirement-tracing~1](#requirement-tracing)

Needs: dsn

## Reports
Reports are the main way to find out if a projects requirements are covered properly.

### Report Verbosity Levels
`req~report-verbosity-levels~1`

When running a report, users can choose between the following report levels:

  * Quiet - no output
  * Minimal - output states if all items are properly covered or not
  * Summary - summary with aggregated coverage statistics
  * Failures - List of all failed item IDs
  * Failure details - List of all failed items and an overall summary
  * All - List of all items and a summary

Covers:

  * [feat~plain-text-report~1](#plain-text-report)

Needs: dsn

### Plain Text Report
The plain text report is the most basic report variant. It serves two main purposes:

1. Input in build chains
2. Minimal requirement coverage view with the least dependencies. Any text terminal can display the plain text report.

#### Item Links Status
`req~ptr.level-failure-details~1`

On failure detail verbosity level the plain text report displays:

Per specification item
  1. Status
  2. Number of broken incoming links 
  3. Total number of incoming links
  4. Number of broken outgoing links
  5. Total number of outgoing links
  6. Number of duplicates (not including this item)
  7. ID
  8. Description

A summary
  1. Overall status
  2. Total number of links per status
  3. Total number of duplicates

Covers:

  * [feat~plain-text-report~1](#plain-text-report)

Needs: dsn

## Export

### ReqM2 Export
`req~reqm2-export~1`

OFT exports to ReqM2's "SpecObject" format.

Covers:

  * [feat~reqm2-export~1](#reqm2-export)

Needs: dsn

## User Interface

### Requirement Tracing

#### Requirement Tracing Command
`req~requirement-tracing-command~1`

OFT allows requirement tracing via the command line.

Covers:

  * [feat~command-line-interface~1](#command-line-interface)
  * [feat~requirement-tracing~1](#requirement-tracing)
  
Needs: dsn

### Requirement Conversion

#### Requirement Conversion Command
`req~requirement-conversion-command~1`

OFT allows requirement tracing via the command line.

Covers:

  * [feat~command-line-interface~1](#command-line-interface)
  * [feat~requirement-conversion~1](#requirement-conversion)
  
Needs: dsn

#### Export Format
`req~export-format~1`

Users can select ReqM2 as requirement export format.

Covers:

  * [feat~command-line-interface~1](#command-line-interface)
  * [feat~reqm2-export~1](#reqm2-export)

Needs: dsn

### Common

#### Input Selection
`req~input-selection~1`

Users can select requirement sources as combinations of files and directories.

Covers:

  * [feat~command-line-interface~1](#command-line-interface)
  * [feat~requirement-tracing](#requirement-tracing)

Needs: dsn

#### Input Directory Selection
`req~import-directory-selection~1`

Users can n case select zero or more directories below which files and sub-directories are imported recursively.

Covers:

  * [feat~command-line-interface~1](#command-line-interface)
  * [feat~markdown-import~1](#markdown-import)
  * [feat~reqm2-import~1](#reqm2-import)

Needs: dsn

#### Default Import
`req~import-from-stdin~1`

If users select neither files nor directories for input, OFT imports from the current working directory recursively.

Covers:

  * [feat~command-line-interface~1](#command-line-interface)
  * [feat~markdown-import~1](#markdown-import)
  * [feat~reqm2-import~1](#reqm2-import)

Needs: dsn

#### Import Deduplication
`req~import-deduplication~1`

OFT imports each file only once, even if the user selections for import intersect.

Covers:

  * [feat~command-line-interface~1](#command-line-interface)
  * [feat~markdown-import~1](#markdown-import)
  * [feat~reqm2-import~1](#reqm2-import)

Needs: dsn

#### Newline Format
`req~newline-format~1`

Users can choose between Unix-style and Windows-style newline encoding for outputs.

Rationale:

When users work together in teams where the team members use different platforms, configuring the newline helps the team to set a common standard.

Covers:

  * [feat~command-line-interface~1](#command-line-interface)
  * [feat~reqm2-export~1](#reqm2-export)
  * [feat~plain-text-report](#plain-text-report)

Needs: dsn

#### Default Newline Format
`req~fefault-newline-format~1`

Unless selected by the user, OFT uses the native newline format of the platform it runs on for outputs.

Covers:

  * [feat~command-line-interface~1](#command-line-interface)
  * [feat~reqm2-export~1](#reqm2-export)
  * [feat~plain-text-report](#plain-text-report)

Needs: dsn